Pandora FMS : The Free Monitoring System (v1.3)
===============================================

http://pandora.sourceforge.net

What is Pandora FMS
-------------------

Pandora watches your systems and applications, and allows you to know the status of any element 
of those systems. Pandora could detect a network interface down, a defacement in your website, 
a memory leak in one of your server app, or the movement of any value of the NASDAQ new 
technology market. If you want, Pandora could send out SMS message when your systems fails... 
or when Google's value drop below US$ 33.

Pandora will adjust, like an octopus, to your systems and requirements, because has been 
designed to be open, modular, multiplattform and easy to customize and use, all integrated into 
a scalable and distributed architecture.

Pandora runs on any operating system, with specific agents for each platform gathering data and 
sending it to a server, it has specific agents for GNU/Linux, AIX, Solaris, HP-UX, BSD/IPSO, 
and Windows 2000, XP and 2003.

Pandora can also monitor any kind of TCP/IP service, without the need to install agents, and 
monitor network systems such as load balancers, routers, switches, operating systems, 
applications, or simply printers if you need. Pandora also supports SNMP for collecting data 
and for receiving traps.

A few examples of common resources monitored by Pandora could be processor load, disk and 
memory usage, running processes, log files, environmental factors such as temperature, or 
application values like strings contained in web pages or any possible way to collect data in 
an automatic way.

Pandora FMS Features
--------------------

    * Lightweigth agents. No need to install adicional software.
    * Also could use network to collect data on remote systems.
    * High availability for each component.
    * Escalable architecture: no liminitation on number of servers you can setup for the same enviroment.
    * Internal detection on Network Servers in case of failure, automatic takeover of secondary servers.
    * Stores all data for many weeks or months
    * Support for implementing redundant and distributed monitoring servers.
    * Data is stored in a relational database (MySQL).
    * Automatic database optimization for size, using interpolation and compression algorithms.
    * Integrated alert systems: send mails, execute scripts, send SMS, or simply write to syslog are a few examples.
    * Integrated graphical reporting system for any kind of collected data.
    * SNMP Trap reception with Realtime Console.
    * Granularity of accesses and user profiles for each group and each user.
    * Integrated internal auditing for any operation.
    * Alert filtering to avoid false positives.
    * Event system with user validation for operation in teams.
    * Integrated incident system with flows and different profiles.
    * Any collected value can be displayed as graph or data table.
    * Alerts can be triggered any kind of event, in many ways.
    * WebConsole on line HTML contextual help.
    * Integrated DB management: purge and DB compaction.
    * Mass configuration/alert manager to copy and distribute agent-module and/or agents/alerts setup to other agents.
    * Profiles could be personalized using up to eight security attributes without limitation on groups or profiles.
    * Filters for collected data to avoid bad data.

What do I need?
---------------

Perl 5.8, Some Perl modules, MySQL4x or higher, PHP5, and some PHP Modules. See the
Installation Documentation or go to http://pandora.sourceforge.net


Install
-------

Please visit our online documentation site or download install guides at 
http://pandora.sourceforge.net.


Quick install guide
-------------------

Install openssh server

 apt-get install ssh

Download console tarball and uncompress on /tmp/pandora/pandora_console

 cd /tmp
 tar xvzf /whateveritwere/pandora_console_xxxx.tar.gz

Install apache, php, mysql (LAMP) and some PHP5 modules:

 apt-get install libapache2-mod-php5 apache2 mysql-server php5-gd php5-mysql pear php5-snmp

Move pandora_console to /var/www

 mv pandora_console/ /var/www

Change owner to www-data (apache2 user)

 chown -R www-data /var/www/pandora_console/

If you're installing your mysql, setup a root password, for example "none"

 mysqladmin password none

Access with a browser to this machine, in my case, to 192.168.50.126

 http://192.168.50.126/pandora_console

A webpage should show you a welcome screen to install wizard. Read carefully and press "NEXT" 
to begin installation and go to step 2.

Module dependencies are tested here. Probably you need to cold restart your apache

 /etc/init.d/apache2 stop
 /etc/init.d/apache2 start

Refresh your browser and you should see that now all dependencies are Ok. Let's go to step #3.

This screen need to enter data about your database root user (or other with privileges to 
create databases, table and insert data), and where is placed your Pandora FMS setup.

Enter mysql user and password (if you're follow this doc, step by step, should be root as user, 
none as password, and localhost as hostname), and let default values in last two boxes. Let's 
go to final step.

This should be done and Pandora Console fully installed. Last step is delete upgrade.php, 
install.php, all *.sql files:

 rm upgrade.php
 rm install.php
 rm *.sql

And access to your new Pandora FMS console at

http://192.168.50.126/pandora_console/index.php

Login with user "admin" and password "pandora" 

License
-------

The project is distributed under the GPL License v2 or later.

Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Pandora FMS development team

